---
layout: post
categories: book
date: 2020-06-15T00:00:00.000Z
title: Salmon
image: /assets/images/books/salmon.jpg
author: Mark Kurlansky
year: 2020
tags:
  - ecology
  - biology
  - food history
---

I've been on a serious Mark Kurlansky kick, and his new book, [Salmon: A Fish, the Earth, and the history
of Their Common Fate](https://smile.amazon.com/Salmon-Earth-History-Common-Fate/dp/1938340868/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=salmon+kurlansky&qid=1592242427&sr=8-1), is one of his best works.

One of the best attributes of Kurlansky's writing style is the depth which he goes to research his subjects. Salmon is no exception; this book travels the globe across multiple centuries. Kurlansky stitches it all together in a master narrative that is thought provoking, enlightening, and artful.

I loved the focus on indigenous peoples, especially the Ainus of Japan and pacific northwest tribes of North America. These cultures are built on salmon. They knew how to harvest the fish while letting its population and habitat thrive. They have reverence for the fish, which is documented in their techniques, rituals, and religious stories which work to guarantee that the fish return year after year.

Modern cultures don't have this reverence, and are exhausting populations and destroying habitat at an alarming rate. Unfortunately, the cultures of the United States and Europe are infected with a belief that humans can tame and commodify nature and put it back together again once it's broken. However, they don't understand the subtleties of ecology, and all the species and phenomena that balance on salmon. The indigenous people were wiser and kinder to the land than invasive, colonial people.

This book has changed my perspective on consuming certain fish species, hydroelectric dams, hatcheries, and fish farming. I think before, I was partly uninformed and partly misinformed. I feel that I am now equipped to think critically about these issues and make decisions that will help positively impact the environment. I would rather know the facts and modify my behaviors (even my beloved habits) than live in ignorance and contribute to environmental damage.
